readme.md, before:

# spring-data-jpa-implementation

This is an instructional implementation of Spring Data JPA, mainly intended to improve my fluency with Spring Boot in general. The goal is to be able to perform CRUD operations on the JPA repository by GETting select url paths (e.g. /write/pizza adds string "pizza" to the repository). GET / will return a summary of the entire database.

# how to run:
1. Download this repository
2. Enter the project, from whatever directory you've stored it in
3. Run ```mvn spring-boot:run```
4. Behold, my glorious Spring Data JPA implementation!

# todo-list

- [x] Initialize Spring Boot project
- [x] Create JPA repository
- [x] Create controller w/ methods for CRUD operations
- - [x] /api/create?text={text}: Create new item based on text parameter
- - [x] /api/read?id={id}: Return content of item with specified ID
- - [x] /api/read?id=random: Get random database item
- - [x] /api/read:id=all: Get every item in database
- - [x] /api/update?id={id}&text={text}: Update text of item with specified ID
- - [x] /api/delete?id={id}: Delete item with specified ID
- [x] Create method to get database summary and tie to GET /
- [x] Put on finishing touches

Commit message:

docs: update project description + list api routes

readme.md, after:

# spring-data-jpa-implementation

This is an instructional implementation of Spring Data JPA, mainly intended to improve my fluency with Spring Boot in general. Once you've started the project, you can perform CRUD operations on the JPA repository by GETting select url paths. Available paths are listed below:

- **/:** Get summary of entire database, accompanied by some **✨fancy✨** text!
- **/api/create?text={text}:** Create new item based on text parameter
- **/api/read?id={id}:** Return content of item with specified ID
- **/api/read?id=random:** Get random database item
- **/api/read:id=all:** Get every item in database
- **/api/update?id={id}&text={text}:** Update text of item with specified ID
- **/api/delete?id={id}:** Delete item with specified ID

# how to run:
1. Download this repository
2. Enter the project, from whatever directory you've stored it in
3. Run ```mvn spring-boot:run```
4. Behold, my glorious Spring Data JPA implementation!

# todo-list

- [x] Initialize Spring Boot project
- [x] Create JPA repository
- [x] Create controller w/ methods for CRUD operations
- - [x] /api/create?text={text}: Create new item based on text parameter
- - [x] /api/read?id={id}: Return content of item with specified ID
- - [x] /api/read?id=random: Get random database item
- - [x] /api/read:id=all: Get every item in database
- - [x] /api/update?id={id}&text={text}: Update text of item with specified ID
- - [x] /api/delete?id={id}: Delete item with specified ID
- [x] Create method to get database summary and tie to GET /
- [x] Put on finishing touches
